*MAIN SANDS-APP0X. 73" OF TOT AC. Fr 
Fig. 7-Hewitt injection well, triple completion.· 
Fig. 8-Hewitt Unit selective injection cutbacks. 
Injection Surveys 
In a multiple sand waterflood, regularly scheduled injec­tion profiles give information necessary to achieve con­trol of water distribution and improve recovery efficien­cy. An average of 200 radioactive tracer profiles are run annually at Hewitt. Water injection is allocated to in­dividual sands on the basis of these profiles. From the tracer surveys, injection allocations are set for each com­pletion string. Profiles also identify thief zones, stimula­tion candidates, tubing and casing leaks, and channeling between zones. 
Tubing and Packer Installations 
When an imbalance of injection volumes is indicated between zones by well tracer profiles, tubing and packer installations can be used to improve distribution. As shown in Fig. 7, 1 ¼-in. (3.175-cm) tubing and packers are installed in the 2 Ys-in. (7 .3-cm) casing to allow in­jection down the tubing and tubing-casing annulus. This method is applicable only when there is sufficient pressure to inject water into the lower permeability zone. Currently there are 132 tubing and packer installations. These installations have enabled the unit to increase the number of separate injection streams to allow timely flooding of the less permeable producing sands. 
Early profiling in the 1971 expansion area indicated the need for improved distribution. Of the 51 tubing and packer installations in this area, 41, or 80 % , were com­pleted by Jan. 1, 1973, before and during early flood response. Table 2 summarizes the flood results and 1971 expansion area. As shown, the 1971 area projected recovery of 174 bbl/acre-ft (22 427 m3/km2 ·m) is ex­pected to exceed the old area by 19 bbl/acre-ft (2 449 m 3 /km 2 • m). The comparison of flood efficiency is of equal sifnificance. The 1971 area has produced 1 bbl (0.16 m ) of oil per 13.8 bbl (2.2 m3) of injected water, compared with the old area's 1 bbl (0.16 m3) of oil pro­duced per 22 bbl (3.5 m3) of water injected. This dif­ference indicates a more efficient flood in the 1971 ex-
pansion area. We credit a major part of the increased flood efficiency in the expansion area to the early in­stallation of the tubing and packer strings. 
Waterflood Performance Predictions 
Utilizing the injection profiles, an accurate account of in­jection into each sand is recorded to aid in predicting areas of low c.umulative injection throughput and cor­responding high oil saturations. A computer analysis run with the injection data models and predicts injection and production from individual producing sands. The pro­ducing wells have all the sands commingled in the wellbore. Because of the commingled status, oil recovery from any individual sand is virtually impossible to determine, and a prediction of oil recovery potential is made with injection data. 
The computer analysis used at the Hewitt Unit to model waterflood performance is based on articles by Caudle. 1•2 The program provides a simplified model bridging the gap between three-dimensional reservoir simulators and rule-of-thumb prediction techniques. The program assumes steady-state flow, piston displacement, and noncommunicating layers. Within the limitations of the assumptions, the model accounts for areal sweep ef­ficiency, vertical stratification, mobility ratio, initial gas saturation, and changing injectivity. The program output used at Hewitt is a comparison of cumulative injection to cumulative recovery and reserves. These reserve estimates are used to evaluate work programs on injec­tion wells. 
Selective Injection 
Another optimization approach at the Unit has been the selective decrease or increase of injection into individual sands. The purpose of the injection changes is to allocate the injection water optimally into the sands with the highest oil saturation. These injection changes result in larger oil-cut production caused by less water cycling through depleted sands. The water injection cutbacks 
