URL: https://www.ogj.com/exploration-development/article/17244244/statoil-to-develop-tyrihans-oil-gas-field
Title: Statoil to develop Tyrihans oil, gas field
Summary： Statoil ASA has submitted a development and operation plan and begun procurement for the subsea development of Tyrihans oil and gas field in the Norwegian Sea.
Author: By OGJ editors
Publication date: July 18, 2005
Article Content:
HOUSTON, July 18 -- Statoil ASA has submitted a development and operation plan and begun procurement for the subsea development of Tyrihans oil and gas field in the Norwegian Sea.

It plans to start production in 2009 when spare production capacity becomes available on the Kristin platform 35 km to the northwest.

Statoil will develop Tyrihans with five subsea templates, one of them for seawater injection, in 300 m of water. It estimates reserves at 182 million bbl of oil and condensate and 34.8 billion cu m of rich natural gas.

For pressure maintenance, it will supplement seawater injection with injection of gas from its Aasgard development.

A 43-km, electrically heated pipeline will link Tyrihans with the Kristin platform. Tyrihans gas will flow from Kristin via the Aasgard trunkline to Kaarstoe north of Stavanger. Oil and condensate will be stored in the Aasgard C vessel for loading onto tankers.

Statoil has entered a 3-year, 2-billion-kroner agreement to use the Transocean Arctic semisubmersible for drilling and completion. It plans 12 wells, some multilateral, including 9 for production, 2 for gas injection, and 1 for injection of unprocessed seawater.

It also let a 300-million-kroner contract to Butting of Germany for the December 2006 delivery of steel pipe for the pipeline, laying of which is expected to begin in 2007.

Ramboell Denmark SA will conduct engineering for the pipelines and their routes.

The Kristin platform will need alterations, although some modifications for Tyrihans were made while the platform was under construction. A 250-tonne processing module will be built and installed on the platform in 2008.

The Aasgard B platform also will require modification.

Statoil has a 46.8% interest in Tyrihans, Total 26.51%, Norsk Hydro 12%, Eni Norge 7.9%, and ExxonMobil Corp. 6.75%.

