volume ratio of the vapor phase in the distillation cell. The VSOR in the steam distillation experiment is merely the ratio of the steam factor (VwN0;) to the steam yield (VoN0J This information is useful in estimating the gross water and hydrocarbon composition of the vapor phase in the steam chest of an actual steamflood. 
For steam distillation runs using Kem River oil at 300 and 400°F the VSOR with steam throughput are summarized in Fig. 6. The ratio increases with steam injection. The ratio at early production represents a lower limit of the VSOR value. The VSOR based on the first steam distillation overheads appear to be temperature dependent, and vary from an average of 256 in the 300 °F runs to 97 in the 400 °F runs. The value of 256 at 300 °F is in the middle of the estimated range of 32-499 based on vapor pressure arguments above. The ratio on a mass basis is calculated by correcting the volume ratio for the appropriate densities and is also included in Fig. 6. On a mass basis the initial ratio is an average of 26 at 300 °F and 10 at 400 °F. 
The results give an order of magnitude estimate of how much hydrocarbon could be in the vapor phase in a steamflood. The amount is not significant to a reserve estimate, but may affect logging tools that respond to oxygen and carbon densities. 
Compositional Changes During Steam Distillation. Compositional analyses of the overheads from the steam distillation runs were conducted at EPTD using modified simulated distillation procedures to obtain the hydrocarbon distribution in terms of an equivalent alkane carbon number. The gas chromatography procedures have been described elsewhere.1 
Steam distillation vaporizes light ends in the composition of even heavy oils at all temperatures investigated in this study, 300 500 °F. The steam vaporization process is not constant (Fig. 7), and steam continues to vaporize or distill heavier and heavier hydrocarbons. The compositional distributions of the overheads from the steam distillation Run B07 at 300 °F (Fig. 7), show large changes from the first overhead to the last sample. The distribution of B07-1 distillate peaks at a carbon number of 12 while the last sample at high steam throughput peaks at carbon number 15. The effect of steam throughput on the overhead distribution is significant even for steam experiments at 300 °F. The boiling temperature of C12 is near 420 °F while C15 boils at -510 °F. Thus 300 °F steam is vaporizing hydrocarbon components in the oil that have boiling points well above the steam injection temperature. 
Similar results were obtained in Run BOS at 300 °F. This run differs from B07 in that it was carried out to higher steam throughput. The overhead distributions change even more dramatically with additional steam throughput (Fig. 8). The compositions were sampled on every other distillate. The sample numbers are roughly spaced according to steam throughput up to a VwN0; of 4.6 for sample B08-15. The maximum in the hydrocarbon distribution of the overhead changes from 12 in the first overhead to 17 in the last overhead at a steam distillation factor of 4.5. The effect of steam 
throughput on the overhead distribution is more dramatic when looking at the tails of the distributions at high carbon numbers. When the sensitivity of the scale is enhanced, it is clear that steam at 300 °F is distilling measurable hydrocarbons through at least carbon number 26.. 8.6% of the composition on a mass basis occurs above a boiling temperature of 620 °F for the last distillate (B08-15). A carbon number 26 normal alkane has a boiling point of -750 °F. Thus 300 °F steam has the energy to distill heavy hydrocarbons that boil at temperatures much higher than 300 °F. This is consistent with the suggestion above that steam may vaporize all of the oil at an infinite steam throughput. Steam distillations of Kem River Station 36 oil at 400 °F show similar behavior, but additional hydrocarbon production. In Run B09 the oil was distilled with super heated steam. The compositional distributions of the overheads from the 400 °F super heated steam distillation (B09) run, show a large shift to heavier hydrocarbons at increased steam throughput. The hydrocarbon distribution at early production peaks at C13. Midway through the steam injection the I maximum in the hydrocarbon distribution has shifted to C15, and the last production peaks at C17. Steam distillation overhead distributions at 400 °F under saturated steam conditions were similar to the super heated case. The yield is lower in the saturated steam case (Run BI0), but the overall distributions are similar. At early production, the peak in the hydrocarbon distribution is C13, at mid production it is C15, and at longer steam throughput the peak shifts to C17. 
In steam distillation Run B12 the temperature was varied from 300 to 500 °F. The composition of the initial overhead (B 12-1) has a peak at carbon number 11, and the last production, at a steam temperature of 500 °F, has a peak at carbon 14. The variable temperature studies give a broad look at steam distillation over changing conditions of steam throughput and temperature. However, so many conditions are changing simultaneously that specific field related information is not as useful as isothermal experiments. The variable temperature distillation may represent near injection well phenomena at the beginning of the steamflood. One constant temperature (SWID-2) steam distillation was conducted at 500 °F under saturated steam conditions (Run BBR3 conducted at 699 psia). This steam distillation was conducted at very low steam throughputs, up to a throughput of 0.3. The yield is not comparable to the other isothermal floods at higher throughputs. The composition of the distillates at these low throughputs look similar. The hydrocarbon distributions peak at C13 for all the s_amples. However, the surprising result appears in the tail of the compositonal distributions of Kem River distillates at this 500 °F condition. 
The magnified distributions of the distillate tails show significant population of C21 -C30 hydrocarbons at low steam throughput. This covers hydrocarbons with boiling points in the range of 640 -840 °F! Thus a 500 °F steam distillation is capable of vaporizing oil components with boiling points in the 600 -800 °F (C20 -C30+) range. For the last overhead collected in this run, 15% of the mass distribution occurs above a boiling 
