equilibrium than the conditions of Run B08. It appears that the continuous steam injection of the dynamic distillation process may provide more agitation and greater steam/oil contact than the batch method. The dynamic steam yields are higher, compared to the expected near equilibrium process of mSWID-2. This may be due to increased steam hydrocarbon contact area and mass transfer, i.e. enhanced hydrocarbon vaporization. 
The yield data at 400 "F (Fig. 3b) show a steam distillation yield of at least 14% at a steam distillation factor of 3.800. The two runs have significantly different yield curves. Run B09 had no water in contact with the oil at the start of the distillation. 
The average cell pressure during this distillation run was I00 psia (Table 2). Because of this initial condition and the 400 "F cell temperature, the steam distillation proceeded under super heated steam conditions. The B10 distillation run was at the same temperature but with water initially present. This condition created saturated steam conditions evidenced by the higher cell pressure, 250 psia. In this particular case, superheated steam distilled -25% more oil than saturated steam at an equivalent steam (CWE) throughput. The lower yield in the presence of initial water and at higher pressure is suggestive of the suppression of hydrocarbon vaporization due to the water. When water is not present, the hydrocarbon vaporization can proceed more efficiently. The presence of water apparently inhibits the mass transfer rate or the rate of vaporization of the light hydrocarbon components from the liquid phase to the gas phase. 
The results of the dynamic distillation tests and one modified dynamic test for Kern River oil are summarized in Fig. 4. This figure plotted in a logarithmic scale for VwfV0; represents all the experimental effects that have been observed in the current steam distillation studies of Kern River oil. The effects include the trend of distillation yield with distillation factor, temperature dependence, process effects, and distillation pressure or steam saturation influence. 
The trend of distillation yield with distillation factor on a logarithmic scale is clearly increasing for all of the steam distillation tests conducted for Kern River at steam throughput factors up to 8.0. This increase is not asymptotic as it was assumed previously. Linear plots of steam distillation results misled early workers into suggesting that the distillation yield for a given oil was nearly constant above a certain volume of steam injection and independent of temperature.12 The logarithmic plot also shows a temperature effect of increasing distillation at higher temperatures, and a distillation yield that increases with steam throughput. The results are not inconsistent with the eventual steam distillation of all of the oil at unlimited steam throughput. Although this is not practical, it does suggest that the residual oil near an injection well in a mature stearnflood may show much greater distillibility and light end loses than expected from laboratory tests. 
Temperature dependence is presented by comparison of dynamic distillation tests (DDT) B08, B09 and B02. The hydrocarbon yield increases as the steam temperature is raised. 
The 'Magic' of Steam. The action of steam on oil has two very important effects. One of them has been exploited for oil recovery by steam injection; the other one has largely been neglected or included in an oblique way. Steam provides heat to the oil in a reservoir. This heat reduces the viscosity of the liquid oil and facilitates movement of the oil to the producing well. Steam also creates a vapor or gas space in the reservoir into which oil can distill or vaporize. This later effect is the 'magic' of steam for the sake of this vaporization of some of the oil into the gas subsequent movement with the steam and condensation and re-vaporization mechanisms have not been extensively exploited in steamflood distillation mechanism has important application in the overall steamflood process and may have a downstream operations. The 'magic' on the combination of Dalton's Law of partial pressures and Raoult's Law of partial pressures and compositions as applied to water/oil/vapor systems.vaporization mechanism maybe subliminally previous steamflood evaluations through the adjustment relative permeability curves and recovery endpoints. 
'O 
Ł a 
0 Ł [ discussion. The Ł phase and a 3 possible .g Ł operations.30 The i g wider application in (0 en .,, of steam is really based Ł liquid phase 31 The ( included in Ł of l <O i ;;;: Ł Ł Ł :,J s: en separate and Ł current steam Ł <O Ł Ł Ł s: Ł Yet steam at Ł 'ii! 3 Ł Ł o' a. §' Łin Ł 
Some of the 'magic' of steam and its action on Kern River oil can be shown in the results of the steam distillation tests compared to simple distillation (Fig. 5). Stearn is able to distill oil components at much lower temperatures than by heat alone. The ancients used this property of steam to concentrate perfume essences from oils. The distillation work allows a comparison between simple distillation and steam distillation to be made, once a basis for comparison is established. The TBP (Total Boiling Point) curve for Kern River Station 3617 is compared to steam distillation yields at 300 and 400 "F in Fig. 5. The volume of oil vaporized and produced by steam is taken at steam factors of -4.0 for the 300 and 400°F dynamic steam distillations. This comparison is specific to the water throughput (steam factor) of the steam distillation runs, which was -4. The ASTM D-2892 results show that Kem River oil does not distill below 400 "Fusing heat only. 300 "F and a steam factor of -4 distills about I 0% of the oil. This effect is what is referred to above as the 'magic' of steam, and is a key mechanism in stearnflood recovery. 
Vapor Phase Steam-Oil Ratio Estimates. The steam-oil Ł ratio in a laboratory test is an indicator of how much "' g hydrocarbon is present in the steam chest of a mature § 0 steamflood. The steam-oil ratio in the vapor phase (VSOR) Ł can be easily calculated from laboratory steam distillation Ł production data, and is a coarse independent check on the vapor pressure data. Such data may be useful in the calibration and corrections of some logging tools that respond to both water and hydrocarbon, like a Carbon-Oxygen log. 
The steam-oil ratio (VSOR) is the ratio of the volume of steam to the volume of the oil in the vapor state at the temperature and pressure conditions of the distillation. Each overhead produced in the steam distillation test represents the 
