BIO, steam distillations at 400 °F. As observed in the other physical properties of viscosity and density, the molecular weight of the produced samples generally increased with steam throughput (Fig. 12). Fluctuations appear in some sample series. This is attributed to changes and adjustments in the backpressure. The molecular weights of the overheads for the superheated steam distillation (B09) appear higher, with the molecular weight getting as high as 290. The saturated steam case (B 10, Fig. 12), does not show a trend to as high molecular weights as the superheated case. This is consistent with the presence of water in the saturated steam casing suppression of the vaporization of hydrocarbon. Analysis of overheads from steam distillation Runs B04 and B12 form a second set of variable temperature (SWID-1) results (Fig. 12). The trends with steam throughput are the same. The molecular weight of the produced hydrocarbon samples increased with steam throughput. 
Molecular weights may also be estimated from GC compositional distributions. No FPD data were measured for distillates from the 300 °F steam distillations, Runs B07 and B08. However, based on the GC hydrocarbon distributions of the produced samples molecular weights were obtained using the equivalent alkane approximation (Table 6). 
Comparison of Kern River Condemate And Distillates. 
Initially, laboratory steam distillation studies were expected to bear on the age of a field steamflood. Analysis of the overhead compositions with steam throughput in laboratory steam distillation tests and comparison to produced 'casing blow' condensate from the reservoir was expected to be related. Such information could aid in the evaluation of steamflood performance and mechanism. However, Kern River 'casing blow' composition and produced amount do not appear directly related to current or past laboratory steam distillation tests. Kern River 'casing blow' does seem similar to early yields in laboratory steam distillation tests. The implications will be discussed in this section. 
Steam distillation studies in the minimum provide a valuable demonstration of the origin of 'casing blow' condensate in conventional steamflood operations. The composition of the distillates also reveals an important part of the energy mechanism at work in steamflooding. The heat energy not only lowers the viscosity of the oil but also vaporizes hydrocarbons. Laboratory studies show the composition of the distillates increases to higher carbon numbers with the steam temperature and with steam throughput. All of these effects are expected to occur in the field and should be in thermal numerical models. 
Some condensate properties were discussed earlier. Data are gathered here for a better comparison of 'casing blow' and steam distillation properties. The physical properties of density (p), molecular weight, viscosity (µ), and composition of Kern River 'casing blow' are compared to the first distillates produced in 300 and 400 °F steam distillations of Kern River crude oil in Table 7 and Fig. 13. 
The Kem River steamflood runs at an average temperature of 240°F in the steamchest mid-point between the injector and 
producer. Steam is probably injected at near 400 °F. The amount of 'casing blow' produced relative to oil has an historical high around 3% and has diminished to -0.6% before a 'casing blow' shut-in program began. The 'casing blow' physical properties appear similar to the first overhead in the 300 °F laboratory steam distillation. The first overheads were obtained at low steam throughputs. Kem River steamflood is at least 20 years old, and dominated by gravity forces. Yet the condensate has physical properties similar to early production in a laboratory steam distillation. 
The hydrocarbon composition of condensate (Fig. 13) is also similar to the early steam distillation production in the 300°F distillation. These results bring up and imply important differences between the laboratory distillation process and the field performance, which includes the mixing of distillates and crude oil. 
The one parameter that could unite all these observations and result is the casing system temperature. The casing system temperature appears to be the most important parameter in determining the quality and quantity of 'casing blow' in a steamflood. At Kem River producing well bottom hole temperatures may be in a range of 212-225 °F. No laboratory steam distillation has been conducted in this temperature range. However, the effect of temperature on steam distillation observed in this report suggest that the hydrocarbon casing production will be much lower and consist of lighter components in the field compared to laboratory studies at 300 -400° F. The corroboration of this hypothesis awaits future laboratory and/or simulation work. 
Conclusions 
Steam distillation causes large compositional changes in Kem River oil. The oil produced by steam vaporization is not like the original oil. Vaporized oil was 20 gravity units lighter than Kern River Station 36 oil. Viscosity, molecular weight, and composition were also changed. 
The steam yield of Kern River oil in laboratory studies under saturated injection and withdrawal conditions is affected by three factors: I) the temperature of the steam, 2) the amount of steam, and 3) the steam distillation setup. The amount of vaporized oil produced by steam distillation increased with steam temperature and steam throughput. The increased yield with amount of steam implies that the steam distillation process may still be an important mechanism in the steamchest of a mature steamflood. 
Hydrocarbon condensate ('casing blow') produced in the mature Kem River steamflood is similar to distillates produced at low steam throughput in laboratory steam distillation studies. This observation along with other results on the effect of temperature implies that the most important controlling field parameter for 'casing blow' composition and amount is the temperature within the casing system. 
Additional core studies are recommended that focus on the application of laboratory and/or simulation techniques to predict field 'casing blow' quality and quantity at producing 
