url: https://www.rigzone.com/news/aramco_starts_gas_production_in_south_ghawar-20-nov-2023-174761-article/
Title: Aramco Starts Gas Production in South Ghawar
Author: Paul Anderson
Publication date: 
Article Content:
Integrated energy and chemicals major Saudi Arabian Oil Co. has produced the first unconventional tight gas from its South Ghawar operational area two months ahead of schedule.
The company said in a media statement that this development supports its strategy to increase gas production by more than half relative 2021 levels through 2030, subject to domestic demand.
Commissioned facilities at South Ghawar have a 300 million standard cubic feet per day (MMscfpd) of raw gas processing capacity and 38,000 barrels per day of condensate processing capacity. Aramco said that it will continue its work to more than double the overall processing capacity in response to the growing demand for gas. The strategic goal is for South Ghawar to deliver 750 MMscfpd of raw gas in the near future.
“This first production of unconventional tight gas from South Ghawar is a milestone that demonstrates real progress on our gas expansion strategy, which we believe has a role to play in meeting the Kingdom’s needs for lower-emission energy and supporting growth in the chemicals sector”, Nasir Al-Naimi, Aramco upstream president, said. “The ability to commence production two months ahead of schedule and below budget is testament to the unwavering dedication of our people and their determination to continuously enhance our Upstream operations”.
South Ghawar is Aramco’s second unconventional gas stream to have been stated up after production commenced at the North Arabia field in 2018 with the delivery of 240 MMscfpd to customers in Wa’ad Al-Shamal, the company said.
Work is simultaneously progressing at the giant Jafurah unconventional gas field, which is the largest liquid-rich shale gas play in the Middle East. Beneath its basin lies an estimated 200 trillion scpf of natural gas, which can help reduce emissions and provide feedstock for lower-carbon future fuels, according to Aramco.
