Url: https://www.rigzone.com/news/oil_gas/a/44604/roxar_to_supply_wet_gas_meters_for_statoil/
Title: Roxar to Supply Wet Gas Meters for Statoil
Author: None
Publication date: 
Article Content:

Roxar has signed a deal to supply its Roxar subsea Wetgas meters to FMC Technologies for several key Statoil gas fields in the Norwegian Continental Shelf (NCS), including the Alve field.

The contract was signed with FMC Technologies, one of the world's leading EPC (Engineering Procurement Construction) companies, who is supplying the subsea systems to Statoil. The deal reflects FMC Technologies and Statoil's continued focus on innovation and development in the NCS.

The Roxar subsea Wetgas meter is the latest in wet gas metering technology, providing real-time, accurate measurement of hydrocarbon flow rates and water production as well as online detection of formation water breakthrough. 

The meter's ability to measure water in very small amounts is an important input parameter for Statoil in the Alve field in gaining a further understanding of the reservoir, guaranteeing continuous flow, optimizing equipment, and allowing for preventative or remedial action to be taken, such as optimizing chemical injection. 

In addition, controlling hydrates in the subsea production system and ensuring the correct composition of the pipeflow prior to entering the transport systems was a key driver in the selection process for the other fields. 

Said Roxar CEO, Sandy Esslemont: 

""Since 1987, Roxar has been a key partner to Statoil, bringing increased flow assurance and production optimization to Statoil's operations worldwide. Whether it be production well testing, improved reservoir management, or hydrate prevention, the accurate measurement of wet gas flow is crucial to managing one's fields and in the case of Statoil, ensuring the right pipeflow composition when entering transport systems. 

"The Roxar subsea Wetgas meter remains unrivalled in terms of its proven technology, functionality and accuracy and we look forward to helping Statoil maximize economic performance from the Alve and other fields."" 

The Alve field is a gas/condensate/oil field, which lies 16 kilometers south-west of the Norne field in water depths of 390 meters, and will be developed as a satellite tie-back to the existing Norne FPSO (Floating, Production, Storage and Offloading) vessel. Recoverable reserves are estimated to be 6.78 billion cubic meters of gas and 8.3 million barrels of condensate with output expected to commence in December 2008. 

The Roxar subsea Wetgas meter is a compact, state of the art meter for the inline measurement of wet gas flow and is designed for installation in wells with GVF more than 95 percent volume. Performance tests have shown the meter is able to detect changes in the water production with sensitivity better than +0.005 percent volume while the absolute accuracy is +0.1 percent volume in high GVF (more than 98.5 percent) cases. 

Roxar creates value for its customers through its Reservoir Interpretation, Reservoir Modeling, Reservoir Simulation, Well and Completion, Production and Process Solutions and Consultancy Services. 

Roxar is a key provider of multiphase metering to Statoil, with Roxar subsea Wetgas meters in place in the Snohvit and Mikkel wet gas fields. In September 2005, Roxar installed the largest multiphase meter (12") ever to be delivered to the oil and gas industry at Statoil's Norne field on the FPSO vessel.
                    
