Url: https://www.rigzone.com/news/cnooc_starts_production_at_several_oil_gas_projects-17-nov-2023-174737-article/
Title: CNOOC Starts Production at Several Oil, Gas Projects
Author: Rocky Teodoro
Publication date: 
Article Content:
CNOOC Limited has started production at its Bozhong 19-6 Condensate Gas Field Phase 1 Development Project in the central Bohai Sea.
The project, located in an average water depth of approximately 65.6 feet (20 meters), is 100 percent owned and operated by CNOOC. The main production facilities include a newly built central processing platform, three unmanned wellhead platforms, and 1 gas processing terminal. CNOOC plans to commission 65 development wells, including 42 production wells, 20 gas injection wells, and three water source wells, it said in a statement Tuesday. The project is expected to achieve peak production of approximately 37,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd) in 2024.
“The project is the first condensate gas field with a proved in-place volume of over 200 billion cubic meters of natural gas that has been put into operation in Bohai Bay, relying on the Bozhong-Kenli Oilfields Onshore Power Project”, CNOOC President and CEO Zhou Xinhuai said in the statement. “The gas field will supply stable clean energy to the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region and the Bohai Rim region, and contribute to the low-carbon and high-quality development of the company”.
CNOOC also reported several project updates in separate recent statements.
Also in the Bohai Sea, CNOOC announced the start of production at the Penglai 19-3 Oilfield Area 5/10 Development Project, which it operates and holds a 51 percent interest, with ConocoPhillips China holding the remaining 49 percent interest.
The project is located in the south-central Bohai Sea, with an average water depth of approximately 98.4 feet (30 meters). The main production facilities include two wellhead platforms. The company plans to commission 130 development wells, including 87 production wells and 43 water-injection wells. The project is expected to achieve peak production of approximately 29,800 barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil in 2027.
In the Pearl River Mouth Basin of the South China Sea, CNOOC began production at its Enping 18-6 Oilfield Development Project which it operates with a 100 percent interest.
The project, with an average water depth of approximately 324.8 feet (99 meters), has one wellhead platform, with 15 development wells planned to be put into production. It is expected to achieve a peak production of approximately 9,300 bpd of crude oil in 2024.
Meanwhile, the company has discovered the Shenfu deep coalbed methane (CBM) field in China, adding proved gas in-place of over 3.53 trillion cubic feet (100 billion cubic meters), the nation’s first large deep CBM field.
The Shenfu deep CBM field is located in Yulin, Shaanxi Province at the eastern edge of the Ordos Basin. The discovery well SM2-33-CH1 encountered 54.1 feet (16.5 meters) of coal seam at a burial depth of approximately 6,587.8 feet (2,011 meters), which can produce approximately 671,000 cubic feet (19,000 cubic meters) per day after fracturing operations, CNOOC said.
“The discovery of the Shenfu deep CBM field demonstrates the broad prospect of exploration and development in the eastern edge of the Ordos Basin”, CNOOC Deputy Chief Exploration Engineer Xu Changgui. “It will provide important guidance for our exploration in similar basins and facilitate the growth of our reserves and production of unconventional oil and gas”.
“The discovery lays a solid foundation for the company to build a large onshore gas production base, which will tap up to one trillion cubic meters of proved gas in-place”, Xinhuai said. “To that end, we will continue to step up our efforts in the exploration and development of onshore unconventional gas, to increase our reserves and production, and to contribute to the high-quality development of the company”.
