Url: https://www.rigzone.com/news/oil_gas/a/53207/elixir_provides_production_update_on_gulf_of_mexico_fields/
Title: Elixir Provides Production Update on Gulf of Mexico Fields
Author: None
Publication date:
Article Content:

Elixir Petroleum says that the merger between Elixir and Gawler Resources completed on November 13, 2007, with Gawler being delisted from the ASX on that date. Former Gawler share and option holder should now be in receipt of Elixir holding statements which describe their new share and option holding interests in Elixir.

This update provides the  first opportunity for  Elixir to report  on
its interests acquired by  way of the merger  in the High Island  and
Pompano Projects.


High Island Field


The High Island Field is a gas  and oil field located in 169 feet  of
water offshore Texas in the Gulf  of Mexico. The field is  surrounded
by a number of producing fields and associated oil and gas production
and transportation infrastructure. Elixir, through its acquisition  of
Gawler, now holds a 30% working interest in the field. This  interest
is subject to  a 5.4%  'back-in' arrangement which  will take  effect
once Elixir has recouped its initial investment in the project.


During the  course  of  the  year, two  production  wells  have  been
drilled, completed and  tied back to  a regional processing  facility
located near  the High  Island  field. The  wells were  brought  into
production during September 2007.  In the period following the  issue
of Gawler's  quarterly report  on  October  31, 2007, the  wells  have
continued to flow steadily at  approximately 17.5MMcf of gas per  day
and 200 barrels of condensate per day.


Sales proceeds from production for the month ended September 30, 2007
are expected to be received  by Elixir in the  next few days. We  are
advised by the operator that the average price realized for the  sale
of gas produced in September  was US$6.18/mcf and for condensate  was
US$79.27/Bbl.


Future sale proceeds from production at High Island will be  received
by Elixir on a monthly basis.


Pompano Project


We are pleased to announce that the Joint Operating Agreement ('JOA')
for the Company's Pompano  project has been executed  by each of  the
joint venture participants.


The Pompano Gas Field is located approximately 90 miles southwest  of
Houston and 30 miles east of Port  O'Connor, Texas.  It is located  7
miles offshore in  the Gulf  of Mexico  in approximately  55 feet  of
water. The  Pompano project  has  existing production  facilities  in
place requiring  only relatively  minor refurbishment  work to  allow
them to be utilized for production purposes.


The execution  of the  JOA  allows for  the commencement  of  infield
activities and it is anticipated that this work will be completed  in
the next 21 -  28 days at  which time the  drilling location will  be
ready for the rig  to move onto site.  The Operator has advised  that
negotiations with rig providers are advanced and final rig  selection
and contracting will take place in the near future.


The first well to be drilled is a commitment well and Elixir is  able
to participate  in the  drilling  of an  additional  5 wells  in  the
Pompano field.


The participants in the Pompano Project Elixir with 25%; Buccaneer with 65%; Baron Petroleum with 7.5%; and Streamline Exploration with 2.5%.

