SPE-179612-MS 
Improved Oil Recovery Through Unsteady Waterflooding Conditions-Cyclic Waterflooding Application in Tiguino Field, Ecuador 
M. A. Munoz, and M. V. Rivadeneira 
Copyright 2016, Society of Petroleum Engineers 
This paper was prepared for presentation at the SPE Improved Oil Recovery Conference held in Tulsa, Oklahoma, USA, 11–13 April 2016. 
This paper was selected for presentation by an SPE program committee following review of information contained in an abstract submitted by the author(s). Contents of the paper have not been reviewed by the Society of Petroleum Engineers and are subject to correction by the author(s). The material does not necessarily reflect any position of the Society of Petroleum Engineers, its officers, or members. Electronic reproduction, distribution, or storage of any part of this paper without the written consent of the Society of Petroleum Engineers is prohibited. Permission to reproduce in print is restricted to an abstract of not more than 300 words; illustrations may not be copied. The abstract must contain conspicuous acknowledgment of SPE copyright. 
Abstract 
This paper describes the analysis and positive results of injecting water, from constant to discontinuous rates in a reservoir under a high water cut stage. By following and improving waterflooding surveillance applications it was possible not only to describe the kind of reservoir, but also to keep the water cut up for a longer time. The goal of this study is to demonstrate the powerful benefits of applying and improving the surveillance plots that are available in the existing literature. The pore volumes injected plot, which was enhanced in this study by adding the injection rates per well in a secondary Y axis, was a powerful tool to identify the water cut behavior. 
One of the two injector wells of the field was shut in for about 5 months and returned to its water injection conditions for 7 months. These events are presented in three phases. The first is related to the reservoir characterization achieved before the injector shut in. The second includes the well responses observed and monitored during the injector shut in. And, the third illustrates the promising reservoir results after the injector shut in. As well, an economic model is also developed. 
As a result of the field events, analysis, and results described in this paper, the reservoir water cut was stable for a longer time in comparison with the whole life of the IOR project. In addition the increase Estimate Ultimate Recovery was 304,968 bbl for 8 years, the net present value of the field increased to 24%, and the average operating cost was reduced to 2.49 USD/bbl from 2015 to 2022. 
The cyclic waterflooding existing literature supports reservoir characterization, analysis and results achieved in Tiguino Field. The initial application monitored in Ecuador will be helpful to be considered as a first approach for starting an IOR optimization in similar stratified reservoirs. The results obtained in Tiguino field are helpful not only as a real example but also as a statistical support for cyclic waterflooding. The Tiguino case experience would be extrapolated to other fields worldwide. 
Introduction 
Lower Napo T reservoir in Tiguino Field has been producing with conventional waterflooding since 2006. The IOR project has two injector wells Tiguino 05WIW and Tiguino 11WIW. From these two injectors, since Tiguino 11WIW was added to the IOR project, the water cut of the reservoir increased notably. Mainly due to this well, the breakthrough of some wells was reached quickly. Based on salinity values of 
