the majority of the producers, the injected water was basically circulating. Therefore, the IOR project at this time was only helpful to maintaining the reservoir pressure. 
As a result, by applying and optimizing the surveillance plots that are available in the existing literature, it was possible to identify a particular trend behavior in the reservoir water cut. There were some periods of time where the water cut of the reservoir was maintained stable. From that moment, the goal was focused on understanding and figuring out the way to extend this water cut behavior. 
During the Tiguino 05WIW shut in event, interesting responses were observed in the producers. Finally after the return of this well to its steady water injection conditions, some of the producers showed a better oil production performance. Thus, and without additional investment, the water cut of the reservoir kept steadily up for more time in comparison with the whole life of the IOR project. 
Ciclic waterflooding definition 
One of the most applied techniques of Improved Oil Recovery (IOR) to increase the primary oil recovery of a reservoir is water injection (Waterflooding). Conventional waterflooding could be defined as the steady water injection conditions where water is injected into the reservoir through one or more injector wells. The goal of injecting water into the reservoir is to maintain the reservoir pressure and to displace residual oil. 
A cyclic waterflooding technique offers an opportunity when conventional waterflooding does not give additional value. This technique has been applied in many fields in China, the USA, and Russia. 
This IOR technique consists of injecting water and stopping it in certain periods of time. By applying these unsteady waterflooding conditions, the ultimate oil recovery improves and the water production decreases without making additional investments. The concept behind this technique is that by applying different cycles of waterflooding patterns, which include shutting in an injector well, it is possible that the oil from layers with low permeability is carried into the high permeability layers. This oil movement is finally swept toward the producing wells through the next injection cycle event. 
Tiguino Field IOR Project Overview 
Tiguino Field is located in the provinces of Orellana and Pastaza in the jungle of Ecuador as shown in (<>)Fig. (<>)1. The field was discovered by Anglo Ecuadorian OilField Limited by Tiguino 01 well in 1971. The concession includes an area of 269 Km2. In December 2015 there were 9 active wells on the field, which were, Tiguino 01, Tiguino 04, Tiguino 06HZ, Tiguino 07, Tiguino 08, Tiguino 12, Tiguino 13HST2, Tiguino 19 and Tiguino 20. 
Figure 1—Tiguino Field location 
