response was under estimated. 
The refined range for expected Sorw was 0.13 -0.25. This gave a downside of -33% and upside of+10% compared to the base case waterflood incremental reserves. 
Gas-Oil Relative Permeability. (G/0 RelK). The primary target area for the Valhall waterflood is the central area of the field, where the reservoir thickness is best, and penneability higher due to extensive natural fracturing of the chalk. This area is very depleted and a secondary gas cap is forming. Waterflooding of this area will lead to trapping of gas, and significant gas losses are expected as a result of the planned waterflood. 
In an attempt to narrow the uncertainty range on the gas losses, all available two and three phase relative permeability data was reassessed. The data indicated that there was significant uncertainty related to gas, water and oil mobility in the presence of gas5. In addition, the gas saturation in the reservoir was also considered to be uncertain. 
The gas loss remains as one of major uncertainties in defining the waterflood production response. The high gas loss estimate reduces waterflood reserves by 15%, while the low gas loss estimate increases the waterflood incremental reserves by approximately 19%. 
Rock Compaction. The most striking reservoir property associated with the Valhall field is the very high rock compaction and rock compressibility that is observed during pressure depletion of the field. The rock compaction has been measured through numerous laboratory stress tests, but is modified in the history matching process to match well observations of reservoir pressure. The rock compaction is triggerd by reduction in pore pressure and therefore most critical to the performance of the current pressure depletion strategy, and less critical to the pressure maintenance scheme represented by the waterflood project. Rock compaction is important for the waterflood evaluation, as the evaluation is based on the incremental performance of the waterflood strategy over the current strategy. 
With the rock compaction curves being a history match parameter there exists several viable predictions for future rock compaction. Based on an assessment of the likely range in rock compaction scenarios, the downside estimate for the waterflood incremental recovery was estimated to -8% compared to the waterflood base case reserves, while the upside case was +11%. 
lnjectivity. The Valhall permeabilities are typically 1-5 mD, with significantly higher permeabilities in areas where open natural fractures are present. Injectivity during waterflooding 
is therefore an important issue, and a concern in the areas outside the fractured central areas. Due to the relative thin formation in the flank areas (30-100ft) horizontal injectors are planned. It is also considered necessary to inject above the formation parting pressure6 to achieve the required water injection rates. This raises issues related to injection profile control. Injection of produced water adds additional uncertainty to the expected injectivity7. Considering all of the factors above, a range of horizontal well completion efficiencies were defined to represent uncertainty m injectivity. 
The impact on waterflood incremental reserves were quantified to -15% for downside case, and +2% for the upside case, relative to the waterflood base case. The financial impact of the injectivity uncertainty is somewhat higher than the reserves impact, as higher injectivity gives an acceleration effect in addition to the added reserves and vice versa for downside case. 
Original Oil In Place (00/P). Due to imaging problems caused by a gas cloud in the overvurden over the central parts of the Valhall field, the OOIP is uncertain. The variability in the OOIP estimate was based on a recent geological reassessment of the field. The OOIP was initially thought to be a parameter that would require extensive analysis before a refined estimate could be provided. Sensitivity analysis on the initial estimates did, however show that the OOIP played a minor role in describing the uncertainty in the waterflood production response. 
The initial estimate of the uncertainty in OOIP was +/-10% in the areas targeted for water injection. The downside case was estimated to -9% and the upside case to +4% relative to the base case waterflood incremental reserves. 
Water Induced Permeability Increase (WIPJ). One of the novel effects associated with the Valhall waterflood is an spontaneous water induced rock compaction with associated increase in permeability8. The spontaneous rock compaction has been confirmed in core experiments, while the permeability increase is observed in field tests. 
The impact on waterflood production response was initially estimated based on very simplified methods. In order to refine the estimate, core data and PTA data from the pilot injection test was reassessed. Work was also initiated with the reservoir simulation software vendor to incorporate water saturation versus permeability and water saturation versus pore volume relationships in the reservoir model. 
The final base case estimate includes a component of improved permeability, while the low case represents no permeability enhancement. As a result of the improved ability 
