Step 3: Probabilistic Analysis. The project uncertainties were modeled. The output was a probability distribution and expected value for each of the development options. 
Step 4: Evaluation Appraisal. The complex probabilistic model required verification and quality control. Assumptions and validity of the model needed confirmation. Insights such as value of information and impact of risk mitigation measures were calculated. 
Framing the Problem and Screening the Options 
Initially, the project team was faced with numerous alternatives for the size and placement of the water injection facilities: 
Modification of ex1stmg Valhall platforms (with and without additional well slots) 
New platform (with and without well slots) 
Subsea injector wells with facilities placed on existing Valhall complex 
Sharing of facilities with neighboring installation 
Lease of a dedicated jack-up rig 
Various combinations of options above 
A structured method was needed to screen these alternatives and narrow down on the key options. The team developed high level design and capital cost estimates for these facility options based on a "building block" approach. Cost estimates were developed separately for each of the main components: 
Slots and wells 
Seawater treatment 
Produced water treatment 
Injection system 
Deck area 
Marine operations 
The components could then be easily assembled to represent the different scenarios. Production profiles and operating cost estimates were also developed for each of these options and screening economics were run. This resulted in the rejection of 4 options, and the selection of two options for further assessment; 
Build a new dedicated platform for waterflood 
Modify existing facilities for waterflood 
These cases represented a 'large' and 'small' waterflood and a well-known dilemma between, 
high up front expenditure with large upside potential, and 
small capital exposure with limited upside potential. 
The team also investigated if phasing the development over time would reduced the downside and thereby improve the expected value over the non-phased options. 
Decision Hierarchy. An important step in structuring the problem was to identify the main decisions to be made during this part of the project. The decision hierarchy (Figure 2) is a simple, yet powerful tool to distinguish between three types of decisions: 
Policy: Decisions taken as given 
Strategy: Decisions to be focused on 
Tactics: Decisions to be deferred for now 
This helped focus the study efforts on the key decisions. 
Strategy Table. Having developed the economic model, the development options or 'strategies' were identified. These were presented in a 'strategy table' as shown in Table I. 
Economic Model, Influence diagrams and Input Data. The economic model was required to accurately handle expenses, revenue, tax, cash flow and economic indicators. It needed to be flexible in dealing with Real Term (RT) and Money Of the Day (MOD) conversions. In addition it needed deterministic as well as statistical options. 
Influence diagrams (Figure 3) were used to map how parameters influence the result and guide the building of the economic model. The influence diagrams were established in a series of team meetings and during this process it built awareness within the team of how factors impact and relate to the problem. 
Having developed a clear understanding of the problem the ranges in input data were established. An iterative approach is often required to do these estimates. Very often the most likely value is well described, but less attention has been paid to low (I0/90) and high (90/10) estimates. In an iterative approach, the sensitivity analysis established the key variables. Resources would then focus these variables as they controlled the main uncertainty of the problem. Less accurate estimates are usually acceptable for variables with less impact on the result. 
Deterministic Analysis 
After having framed the problem and formulated possible development strategies, the model was used to evaluate the economic merit of each of the strategies. 
A high level assessment of the likely variability of each parameter and it's influence on the project economics were then performed by varying one parameter at a time, from low, base, to it's high value. 
