Tornado Chart. The results of the sensitivities are visualized in a Tornado chart (Figure 4a). The parameters are sorted from top to bottom based on total impact on the project economics•. The parameters are centered on their base value, while the horizontal bars indicate how the uncertainty in each parameter impacts the total project economics. 
The initial Tornado chart for the Valhall waterflood project shows that the uncertainty in the production response has the largest impact on the project economics. This parameter alone could swing the project NPV from a reasonable investment to a relatively large loss. Similar Tornado charts were developed for all the alternative development strategies. 
Business Drivers. Based on the sensitivity results and the Tornado Chart analysis, the main business drivers were readily identified. As a rule of thumb, a comparison of the square of the length of the horizontal bars in the Tornado chart gives an estimate of the relative impact of the parameters in the probabilistic analysis. For the waterflood project the production response is approximately nine times more important than the second ranked parameter in describing the total variability in the project (Figure 4a). This guides the selection of which and how many business drivers are needed to adequately describe the project risk. 
For the Valhall waterflood, production response, mJection well operating cost (well OPEX) and injection well drilling and completion cost (well CAPEX) were the three main business drivers, with production response being by far, the dominant parameter. 
Refinement of Estimates. The identification of business drivers also provided a focus for the effort to minimize project uncertainty. Detailed analysis of the business drivers, resulted in refined value estimates and important insight into the factors that determines the success or failure of the project. The refinement of the ranges for the business drivers is a critical step in ensuring quality input to the subsequent probabilistic analysis. 
The decision risk analysis process (Figure I) can also be effectively used in developing refined estimates for each of the business drivers. For instance, for the waterflood project, the production response is the dominating business driver. By applying the decision risk analysis process, the production response can be broken down to a subset of reservoir parameters with associated uncertainty ranges. Through sensitivity studies, the impact of each parameter can be quantified and ranked by use of a production Tornado Chart. 
All financial numbers in this paper have been manipulated to avoid confidentiality conflicts. 
The effort to refine the estimated value ranges for the parameters in Figure 4a is limited to the main business drivers. Further refinement of the estimates for the lower ranked parameters may give better estimates, but is not likely to impact the final decision or significantly reduce the variability in the project economics. For the waterflood project, the focus on business drivers reduced the study effort from the original eight factors to four factors, of which the production response was the most critical to resolve. 
Production Response. With the production response identified as the critical business driver, a detailed analysis was performed to improve the estimate for the production response with respect to both base value and variability. With the many factors influencing the production response, it was decided to use the decision risk analysis process as a tool to ensure a systematic approach in refining the estimate. 
A decision hierarchy analysis was performed to determine the scope of the analysis, and an influence diagram was created to identify the most important parameters influencing the production response. Ranges were then estimated for each of the parameters and a series of sensitivities were performed. The key drivers for the production response were identified and the need for further refinement assessed. 
The initial estimates for low, base and high values for the production parameters were based on available data, experts' estimates, results from previous studies and available benchmark and analog data. The sensitivity analysis was performed with a black-oil full field reservoir model. The production Tornado Chart (Figure 5a) summarizes the results of the first set of sensitivities. Gas/Oil relative permeability, water rock interaction and residual oil saturation are the three top parameters impacting the production response. However the lower half of the Tornado Chart also includes parameters that have a significant impact on the production response. 
Given the critical impact of the production response on the total project economics it was decided to verify and refine the estimates for the parameters influencing the production response, with the aim to ensure that the decision risk analysis was based on quality estimate for the main business driver. 
Residual Oil Saturation (Sorw). The effectiveness of the waterflood sweep efficiency, both microscopic and macroscopic, were considered to be crucial to the production response, even though it was only ranked third in the first iteration of the Tornado chart (Figure 5a). Through reassessment of two and three phase special core analysis and appropriate pseudo relative permeability functions, the initial uncertainty range for the Sorw was considered to be too narrow and consequently the impact on the production 
